The accounts of faithful women
are found throughout the Bible.
One faithful Christian sister
is mentioned by the apostle Paul
at Romans 16:1, 2.
There he mentions Phoebe,
who ‘proved herself to be
a defender of many, including Paul.’
Today, we’re blessed
to be able to get to know
faithful Christian sisters
who share something unique.
All of them are wives of brothers
who serve as members
of the United States Branch Committee.
Sister Snyder,
we’d like to get to know more about you.
Can you, please,
first tell us how you got the truth?
I was introduced to the truth by my parents.
And Jehovah used the example of my sister
and the nurturing love of older ones
in the congregations to draw me to him.
Then how did you start
in the full-time ministry
and then into Bethel service?
Well, it was a bit of a test.
When I was in my late teens,
a friend of mine died,
and I couldn’t understand
why Jehovah would allow this
to happen to such a kind person.
So an elderly pioneer sister encouraged me
to do deeper research
on the issue of universal sovereignty.
And this not only comforted me,
but it caused me to reevaluate my priorities
and to see if I
truly believed Jehovah would take care of me
if I really put him first.
So I started pioneering
and put college on hold.
And it wasn’t long before I was broke
and the rent was coming due.
And so the next meeting,
I quietly put my last $50
in the contribution box
and thought:
‘That’s it, done, doesn’t work.
I’m going back to school.’
But that evening,
I learned that Matthew 6:33
is undeniably true.
Jehovah surprised me
and cared for all my needs
from the most unlikely sources,
and he hasn’t stopped caring for me since.
And then you joined Troy
in Bethel service later on, right?
Now, what assignments
have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I’ve enjoyed housekeeping.
I’ve really enjoyed a lot of assignments
within Transportation Department,
and I was one of the thousands who worked
on the Warwick and Tuxedo
construction projects.
Now, as the wife
of a Branch Committee member,
you have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Well, like most wives of good shepherds,
I would love
to have more time with my husband.
That’s understandable.
So, what practical things
have you done to deal with that challenge?
Well, prayer, study, and meditation
have reminded me that we’re at spiritual war.
And we’re at war,
so our priorities have to change.
So I can’t long for ideal circumstances,
although they’re coming quickly.
Right now, it’s about advancing pure worship.
And while it’s important to maintain
a healthy and close relationship with Troy,
my primary joy should be in Jehovah.
And, then, second is remembering
the sacrifices that were made for me.
Of course, Jehovah gave up 33 years
with his best friend for me.
And also there were sisters
when I was single and pioneering
who would invite me over for lots of meals
and to go out in service.
They would even send their husband
out on freezing cold, dark nights
to fix my car,
which broke down often.
So I’m grateful,
and the main way I can show this appreciation
is to imitate their examples.
Now, with challenges come blessings.
What’s one blessing you enjoy
as the wife of a Branch Committee member?
Increased peace
that comes from having complete confidence
in how Jehovah directs
and blesses the decisions
his organization makes
through the Governing Body.
If I were not married
to a Branch Committee member,
I may never have known
just how much the brothers
rely on Jehovah’s spirit
and how much time they spend
—long periods of time—
in prayer
and how much
they deeply, deeply love the friends.
So I’m embarrassed
about how much worrying
I’ve done in the past about these things.
But now it’s a lot easier
to just be supportive
and listen, obey, and be blessed.
Very nice.
Now, as you look back
on your rich spiritual life
in Jehovah’s service,
is there an experience you can share with us?
We were visiting a small branch
in a developing country
that had been ravaged
by decades of civil war.
I’d never seen poverty like that before.
And one evening,
I went into the dining room
to gather dinner for us.
But before getting the dinner,
I stopped and talked
to a lovely young brother.
At one point, I turned around
and noticed that all the food had been taken.
And I said, “There’s no more food.”
Now, this young brother hadn’t eaten either.
But he just shrugged and said,
“It’s just hunger,”
and he continued zealously talking
about his assignment.
Now, this brother was a commuter
and very thin,
and so it was likely
that he might not eat that night
or maybe even the next morning.
But the way his face glowed
when he talked about his assignment,
it was clear that his joy
was not based on anything physical
or the lack of anything physical.
So I really treasure this lesson
because it’s made me want to appreciate more
what I do have currently
and to imitate his example in focusing
on what’s truly important.
And I think you told me
that he did get some food that night,
so we’re happy about that.
Thanks for letting us get to know you
and for sharing that experience.
Now we’d like to get to know
Sister Shirrell Georges.
Sister Georges,
can you tell us how you got the truth?
When I was 11, my mother started to study.
Another sister studied
with my two sisters and me
out of the book
From Paradise Lost to Paradise Regained.
Two years later, on November 13, 1971,
my mother, my oldest sister, and I
were baptized.
How did you start in the full-time ministry?
As teenagers, a pioneer couple assisted us
when we temporary, or vacation, pioneered,
as it was called then.
That led me to want
to regular pioneer after high school.
However, after graduating,
I started working full-time.
It was at a district convention
where the point was made,
‘If you’re not pioneering, tell Jehovah why.’
Well, I really didn’t have a good reason.
So I started making plans to work part-time.
It was in September of 1980
when I realized my goal
of regular pioneering.
And how did that lead to Bethel service?
While pioneering,
I had the opportunity to assist
with the Brooklyn Assembly Hall
renovation project on Thursdays.
It was one Thursday that I learned
of an announcement made at Bethel:
Sisters could now commute.
So after a while,
I turned in my application
and started commuting
in November of 1987.
But before commuting, I had met Luther.
We started to court, and then later,
we were married
and accepted as a couple to Bethel.
And what assignments
have you enjoyed at Bethel?
While commuting,
I worked in the Dry Cleaning Department
and continued there after marriage.
For a short time, I worked
with the Brooklyn Warehouse Department.
Then Luther and I
received a surprise assignment.
We were asked to assist
at the Jamaica branch,
starting in March of 1995.
There I worked in alterations,
laundry, kitchen, housekeeping,
shipping, and the Bethel Office.
Then in 2014, the Jamaica branch
merged with the United States branch.
We were invited to serve
back in the United States
—first at Patterson,
where I worked in Audio/Video Services,
and now at Wallkill,
in the Service Department.
Now, you too have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Well, many of the assignments
that Luther has involve traveling.
So that means that we are away
from our congregation,
sometimes for weeks.
It also means that we’re not able to get back
to our return visits and Bible studies
on a weekly basis.
So, what practical things have you done
to deal with that challenge?
We’ve found it helpful
to let the friends know
whenever we will be away.
Many times we would receive a text from them:
“Just saying hi.
Checking on you.
Hope you’re doing well.”
This really has helped us
to stay connected.
Something else we did
was to invite publishers
to go with us on our return visits
and Bible studies.
This way, whenever we were away,
they could keep the interest going.
That’s a good idea.
What good habits did you form early in life
that help you now
as you support your husband?
Growing up, my mother taught us to be content
and to share whatever we had.
One Watchtower  article stated:
“True contentment comes
from loving and being loved.”
We grew up in a loving family,
and then learning about Jehovah
and his love as I grew older
helped me to find contentment
in Jehovah’s service.
So whatever assignment I have,
I try to be content
and view any differences
as an opportunity for me to learn
about the various aspects,
unique personalities,
and qualities of my brothers and sisters.
Now, as you look back
on your rich spiritual life,
is there a memory
you can share with us?
Proverbs 10:22 says:
“The blessing of Jehovah
—that is what makes [one] rich.”
I feel as if I have been enriched
in so many ways with so many memories.
One memory is being able to assist
in the former Jamaica branch
for over 19 years.
Working together with the brothers
was such a unique privilege
and was really encouraging.
To see the brothers exhibit
their faith and loyalty to Jehovah
despite various challenging circumstances
was a true encouragement for us.
We made many friends
in that assignment,
and we continue
to keep in touch to this day.
That is a nice memory.
Thanks for sharing that with us.
Finally, we’d like to talk
to Sister Sunny Cheiky.
Sister Cheiky,
can you tell us how you got the truth
and then entered the full-time ministry?
My mother raised me
and my two brothers to serve Jehovah.
It was difficult for her
because my father left the truth
and our family when we were very young.
But she set a very good example for us.
And then because of the encouragement
of young pioneers in our congregation,
I began regular pioneering
in the Pasadena, California, Congregation
after I graduated from high school in 1962.
And how did that lead to Bethel service?
I served in a few other areas
where the need was great
in New Mexico, northern California,
a special pioneer assignment in Iowa,
and then a small congregation in Mississippi.
Tom was a Brooklyn Bethelite,
and he came down to Mississippi
to dedicate a Kingdom Hall.
In May 1981, we met;
seven months later, we were married,
and we were accepted
to serve as a couple at Bethel.
Nice.
What assignments have you enjoyed at Bethel?
I was a housekeeper for my first three years,
and now I’ve been in laundry for 35 years.
I did have a part-time assignment
in grounds maintenance for a while,
but now I joyfully serve full-time
in the Wallkill laundry.
Now, you too have a demanding schedule.
Can you explain one challenge?
Meeting so many wonderful friends
in our assignments,
I like to keep in touch with them.
But time is so limited,
so I feel that that can be
overwhelming at times.
So, what practical thing have you done
to deal with that challenge?
Well, I love to write cards and send letters,
so that’s how I deal with this.
To be able to keep in touch with my friends
—that really helps a lot.
So, what has helped you to be balanced
despite your busy schedule?
I loved the March 2016 broadcast
that stressed three things.
The first is count your blessings.
We are a part of an amazing organization
that is carrying on the most meaningful work
of preaching and teaching.
The second is look at the big picture.
When I feel stressed out,
I try to put things in the right perspective
—Jehovah’s sovereignty first, foremost,
and not focusing on myself—
and that helps me to keep calm.
And third is get enough rest.
Without enough rest,
I can’t think straight
and even ordinary activities in my routine
seem overwhelming, or too much.
That’s very practical.
Now, is there a particular experience
you’d like to share with us?
When I was special pioneering in Iowa,
I married a brother who was a pioneer
and then became an elder,
and so I continued in the congregation
as a regular pioneer.
After several years, he became an apostate,
and he tried to encourage me
to go with him; but I refused.
The elders made great efforts
to help him to recover,
but he was persistent
in carrying out his course.
So in time, he separated from me
and ended the marriage.
But I felt Jehovah’s support in so many ways.
One in particular was a couple
who would call me often,
and they would have me to their home,
and they never wanted me to feel alone.
Then another blessing came later
when I moved to Mississippi,
and I became partners with a sister
who was 20 years older than me.
She had been in the seventh class of Gilead,
and she had been special pioneering
for 30 years.
So you can imagine
she was a tremendous help to me.
More blessings came later
when I married Tom
and began serving at Bethel.
So feeling Jehovah’s support
in a difficult time
and experiencing his blessings
is unforgettable.
Sister Cheiky, thank you so much
for sharing that experience with us.
In the introduction,
we referenced the example of Phoebe,
that faithful Christian sister.
Interestingly, our Kingdom song number 137,
entitled “Faithful Women, Christian Sisters,”
is based on the description of Phoebe
at Romans 16:2.
The lyrics of that song remind us
that our Christian sisters
show a faithful spirit we all can imitate,
and that’s true of the sisters
we interviewed today.
The song concludes with the words:
“Christian sisters, may Jehovah keep you
firm in your conviction,
your prize is drawing near.”
How we appreciate the example set
by all of our faithful Christian sisters!